- [Instructor] One of my first uses
of asynchronous communications
was in a system I was refactoring.
I was building a new and improved version
of a single domain model
as I was helping my company move to a microservices
and RESTful operations from monolith and SOAP.
Part of my task was to isolate and migrate the data
without system impact.
The design that I created and used
was based on asynchronous messaging.
It's important to note that data migrations are not easy.
They're about moving data at their core.
You're usually taking data
from an all-encompassing database
and moving it to a new focused database.
This is often a core part of a microservices migration,
which again is where I first encountered it.
The migration, however, isn't just about moving data.
It's also about transforming it.
The key for me was that I had to cut over
to the new system without a noticeable downtime.
I had a very small window
of scheduled downtime to deploy new code
but not nearly enough to move the data.
So I had to build a migration plan
that started months before the actual code deployed.
Orchestration is often used for its reliability
and the ease of use in an event-driven system,
like a database write.
Now, before we jump in the model,
we have a few things that we need to consider first.
First, writes are clearly critical to this migration plan
and need to be captured.
Sometimes reads do more than just read.
And you need to make sure
that your reads aren't impactful to the data.
I have found cases where reads are transactional
and actually modify the data.
Not a good practice, mind you
but it may exist.
The impact of the transformations you perform
may have a bigger impact than you expect.
You may now care about more writes
than your core domain.
Your writes may span across multiple components as well
that may have distinct uses
that need to be considered.
Migration time is important here as well.
Synchronization of data is hard,
which we will talk about in a bit.
But you need a clear picture of when the migration
will be done for a full cut over.
Also, depending on the cut over window,
you may end up in a strange state during migration
where you are writing for multiple sources
to the same databases.
And you need to ensure, in this case,
that data remains intact.
Now, I'm going to present a model
that I have used and it worked for me
in my microservice conversions.
This isn't the only way to do migration
but I have found in my experiences
that it worked very well for what I needed to do.
So we start with the original system,
and its database.
Reads and writes are currently occurring here.
You then create your new database
and if possible, the new service.
Having a new service in place actually will aid
in both the migration and the cut over.
Now, you bring into the picture a message broker
and a consumer of that broker.
The consumer should utilize the new service
to perform its work if at all possible.
The consumer knows how to read the old database
and write to the new database
either directly or as I suggest, through the service.
Now, you define your producer.
The producer may be a database trigger,
it may be a separate process,
it may even a function of the original service.
It really doesn't matter where.
They will all usually work.
In this model, we will use a trigger from the database.
Now, the original service sends a create, update
or delete message to the original database.
A trigger will fire a message to the producer,
providing the identifier and the action.
The producer will then put a message on the queue
for the consumer.
The consumer will receive the message,
the consumer will then query the original database,
except from the delete case,
and read the data that it needs.
Once it has its data,
it will call the new service,
which in turn, writes the action to the new database.
Some other process called a crawler here
will crawl the database for records
that may not be touched.
Because the latest state of the original database
is always what you want to have here,
it doesn't matter if the data
was already been written.
Your service should handle that case.
It will also use the producer
to get messages to the database
to keep things moving in a steady state.
In fact, if things are going well,
you can leverage the crawler for a determination
of when the migration is done,
and you are simply in a synchronization phase.